# Clinical-code-lists
Validated clinical code lists for CPRD Aurum 

Bespoke clinical code lists generated to identify all relavent medcodeid codes within CPRD Aurum.  All other codes used within study are referenced in published papers.

All code lists clinically validated

**Bespoke clinical code list development approach** 
There is no standardised approach to developing clinical code lists.  However, after extensive discussions with other researchers who work in this area and searching for relevant literature, the following approach was adapted.  Using the CPRD medical term dictionary which maps all terms entered into the EMIS systems to unique CPRD specific medical code, a systematic search of relevant clinical terms was conducted.  This included selection of suitable terms of relevance to the condition/factor the code list was being generated for (e.g. Alzheimer’s; dementia etc) and selection of any exclusion terms which would otherwise return a large number of unwanted terms (e.g. family history).   Specifics of each code list developed varied slightly and was an iterative process of addition of exclusion terms to ensure the search of the CPRD medial term dictionary was as specific as possible, while also ensure that all potentially relevant terms were included.  The systematic approach employed in this study to generate bespoke clinical code lists followed three stages as described below.

Step 1 – automated search of relavent terms
First, the selection of inclusion and exclusion terms are defined which are then used when searching the CPRD Aurum dictionary in Stata.  Inclusion terms should be any word/series of words which are of relevance to the condition/factor of interest.  For example, inclusion terms for factor living arrangement may include “living alone, cohabitation, homeless, accommodation” etc.  Exclusion terms should be selected to help limit search results that are not of relavence to the condition/factor.  For example. Again for living arrangement, exclusion terms may be “stand tibia fibula aortic revision rvsn reaction test” etc.  Choosing exclusion terms is an iterative process and guided by the results of the search of inclusion terms.  This may involve scanning the search results of terms returned to identify terms witch may not be relevant, then going back to add any additional exclusion terms identified.  This can reduce the number of potentially relevant terms identified significantly.  To check for that the resultant number of terms is roughly in the right region, clinical code lists from other databases were inspected for total number of included terms.  Comparing the number of total included terms provided a level of confidence that the automatic process of code development was adequate before full validation by clinician. 

Step 2 – manual inspection
The next step is to manually inspect the returned clinical terms and make a judgment on their inclusion or exclusion.  This is required in addition to the automatic exclusion process as some included terms may still not be of relevance to the specific condition/factor of interest.  For example, the returned search terms for the condition depression included a large number of other clinical terms which included the word “depression” in it, like “depression in the skull” which is not of relevance to the mental disorder.  In addition, where a condition/factor was to be categorised, manual inspection and indicating which category each included term was to be assigned was also undertaken.  For example, eFI score is recorded directly into primary care records, and therefore, these can be obtained directly from CPRD data.  However, this needed to be categorised into mildly frail, moderately frail, and severely frail categories.  It is within tis manual step that this categorisation is carried out.  The manual inspection (and categorisation) was carried out by two individuals (RT and DO) independently.

Step 3 – clinical validation
Upon completion of manual inspection of the initial code lists (indicating what codes will be included, and where appropriate categorised, and which will be further excluded), these were then shared with a clinician for clinical validation.  The clinician reviewed the lists and indicated weather or not each term should be included or excluded.  Where differences occurred between the clinical expert and the initial assessment in step 2, the clinician provided rational for exclusion and the clinical judgment was accepted.  The final validated clinical code list was then generated and saved as .txt file format.

